README.md, before:

# Data Science for Librarians

Notes/preparation for a data science workshop for librarians (in danish).

## Outline notes

Goal: get feet wet with python / data science on library data

- Intro / overview of workshop
- What is programming
    - Recipe, instructions for computer
        - computer = forvokset regnemaskine, kan kun gøre hvad den bliver bedt om
        - step by step instruction, computer is stupid, only does excatly what told
    - Example of programming languages easily available
        - JavaScript
        - Python
        - Shell
    - Getting started with Python/jupyter-notebooks
        - running within notebooks.azure.com
        - running locally with https://www.anaconda.com/download
- What is data
    - Concrete/paper examples: numbers, text, checkmark/questionmark, lists, indexes
    - Structured data: JSON
        - example/exercise bibliographical data
    - Numbers, Matrices/vectors
    - Data types
        - Numbers
        - Strings
        - Lists
        - Dictionaries
        - Matrices/vectors
        - ... and many morre
- What is data science
    - "datalogi" - computer science vs. data science
    - statistics and machine learning
        - unsupervised
            - example: k-means
        - supervised
            - example: statistical
- Library examples
    - example: recommendation/inspiration engines
    - example: search engines - tf/idf
    - ...
- Conclusion / review of workshop

## Tasks

- [x] initial outline workshop
- [ ] watch/read different introductions to data-science/machine-learning to see what others usually include in introductory courses
- [ ] prepare data set - genre-space
- [ ] make notebooks for demos/exercises etc., such as
    - [ ] bibsci data science experiments / demo
    - [ ] Unsupervised learning - k-means
    - [ ] Supervised learning - simple statistical distance from keyword cluster, - most similar 
    - [ ] Python graphics 
- [ ] printable thinking-in-python
    - [ ] page format for printing
    - [ ] printed by solsort.com ApS, about solsort
    - [ ] cover page
        - [ ] make it clear that it is a gratis book, - not for sale. (to make sure it complies with non-free cc by-nc-sa-license)
- [ ] printable workshop booklet: "Data Science for Bibliotekarer"
    - [ ] write getting started with jupyter notebooks
    - [ ] write workshop synopsis
    - [ ] write about solsort.com ApS
    - [ ] script for joining markdown-notes and jupyter notebooks into single, printable pdf-document.
- [ ] print workshop material

Commit message:

sample notebook link in readme

README.md, after:

# Data Science for Librarians

Notes/preparation for a data science workshop for librarians (in danish).

## Outline notes

Goal: get feet wet with python / data science on library data

- Intro / overview of workshop
- What is programming
    - Recipe, instructions for computer
        - computer = forvokset regnemaskine, kan kun gøre hvad den bliver bedt om
        - step by step instruction, computer is stupid, only does excatly what told
    - Example of programming languages easily available
        - JavaScript
        - Python
        - Shell
    - Getting started with Python/jupyter-notebooks
        - running within notebooks.azure.com
        - running locally with https://www.anaconda.com/download
- What is data
    - Concrete/paper examples: numbers, text, checkmark/questionmark, lists, indexes
    - Structured data: JSON
        - example/exercise bibliographical data
    - Numbers, Matrices/vectors
    - Data types
        - Numbers
        - Strings
        - Lists
        - Dictionaries
        - Matrices/vectors
        - ... and many morre
- What is data science
    - "datalogi" - computer science vs. data science
    - statistics and machine learning
        - unsupervised
            - example: k-means
        - supervised
            - example: statistical
- Library examples
    - example: recommendation/inspiration engines
    - example: search engines - tf/idf
    - ...
- Conclusion / review of workshop

## Tasks

- [x] initial outline workshop
- [ ] watch/read different introductions to data-science/machine-learning to see what others usually include in introductory courses
- [x] prepare data set - genre-space
- [ ] update readme with links to notebooks, such as [this](./notebooks/recommender.ipynb)
- [ ] make notebooks for demos/exercises etc., such as
    - [ ] bibsci data science experiments / demo
    - [ ] Unsupervised learning - k-means
    - [ ] Supervised learning - simple statistical distance from keyword cluster, - most similar 
    - [ ] Python graphics 
- [ ] printable thinking-in-python
    - [ ] page format for printing
    - [ ] printed by solsort.com ApS, about solsort
    - [ ] cover page
        - [ ] make it clear that it is a gratis book, - not for sale. (to make sure it complies with non-free cc by-nc-sa-license)
- [ ] printable workshop booklet: "Data Science for Bibliotekarer"
    - [ ] write getting started with jupyter notebooks
    - [ ] write workshop synopsis
    - [ ] write about solsort.com ApS
    - [ ] script for joining markdown-notes and jupyter notebooks into single, printable pdf-document.
- [ ] print workshop material
